Hiba Laalmi <hibalaalmi542@gmail.com>
Thanks for filling out this form: Security and Human Rights 2026/2027 a.y. -
Admission Interview Booking
1 message
Forms Response Receipts <forms-receipts-noreply@google.com> 	Wed, Mar 18, 2026 at 12:54 AM
To: hibalaalmi542@gmail.com
Thanks for filling out this form: Security and Human Rights
2026/2027 a.y. - Admission Interview Booking
Here's what was received.
Security and Human Rights 2026/2027
a.y. - Admission Interview Booking
* We do remind you that this form can be filled just 1 time per academic year. Be aware
that if you fail to comply with the form rules, you will not be given a second chance to
participate in the pre-enrolment process for this Master's programme*
Dear Student,
Thank you for your interest in studying at the Tuscia University, Master's Degree Programme
in Security and Human Rights (LM-90). We would be glad to support you along the enrollment
procedure for the A.Y. 2026/2027.
You are kindly asked to complete in all its parts in order to book your interview. You can book
your interview up to 10 days before the given date. If eligible we will send you a zoom or meet
link 24 hours before the interview.
Please note that to complete your application and successfully book your interview, you
must meet the legal, financial and competence requirements listed below.
Legal requirements: You will be asked to upload a valid ID Document (Passport).
Financial requirements: You will be asked to declare that you have the financial means to live
and study in Viterbo for the duration of the Master's programme.
Competence requirements: You will be asked to upload the following
documentation to prove that your skills match the study plan of the
International Master's Degree Programme in Security and Human Rights at the
University of Tuscia
- Bachelor's degree certificate or an official enrollment certificate declaring final-year status;

-- 1 of 10 --

- Bachelor's degree transcript of records with a full list of passed exams and GPA;
- An official certificate detailing the grading system at the Institution where you obtained
your Bachelor's degree;
- English language certificate at B2 level or evidence that your Bachelor's degree course was
fully taught in English;
- Resume (Curriculum Vitae): your CV must be two pages long (longer CVs will not be
considered) and must be written using the Europass template (please download the template
here: www.modelli-di-curriculum.it/cv-europass/);
- One-page motivation letter: please note that your motivation letter must demonstrate a
relevant interest in and expertise in the fields covered by the study plan of the Master's Degree
Programme in Security and Human Rights at the University of Tuscia (
https://www.unitus.it/en/courses/second-cycle-degree/security-and-human-rights/). Motivation
letters that do not reference the study plan of the Master's Degree Programme in Security and
Human Rights at the University of Tuscia will not be considered and will render the application
incomplete. If you know any former LM-90 students who advised you to enrol on the Master's
programme, please state this, providing the name and email address of the student in question.
- One-page reference letter: please note that your Reference letter must be written by one of
your academic mentors, preferably one of the professors from your Bachelor's Degree
Programme. The Reference letter should be signed and dated; it should detail your skills and
competencies in the subject areas covered by the Master's Programme you are applying for
(Legal Sciences; Administrative and Organisational Sciences; Political Sciences and
International Relations; Social Sciences for Cooperation, Development and Peace;
Sociology; History; Philosophy; Law) or related subjects (Journalism, Pedagogy,
Literature, Languages, and Humanities). It should be addressed to Prof. Daniela Vitiello,
Coordinator of the International Master's Degree Programme in Security and Human Rights at
the University of Tuscia, and dated 2026. Reference letters that do not respect the
abovementioned requisites will not be considered and will render the application incomplete and
automatically rejected.
Before filling in your application, please note that you will be asked to upload the
following documents. Failing to provide any of the required documentation will result in
immediate exclusion from the interview. The documents to be attached must be in
their original form and not modified after creation. Any modification will result in the immediate
exclusion of the candidate from the evaluation.
Please note that if you were admitted within the last two academic years and you have a
letter of invitation issued by the coordinator of the International Master's Programme in
Security and Human Rights within the last two years, you are not required to attend a new
interview. You can proceed directly with the enrolment procedure.
ADMISSION CRITERIA AND INTERVIEW MODES ACCORDING TO ART. 5 OF THE COURSE
RULES
Please note that, according to Art. 5 of the Course Rules, Bachelor's degrees in the Hard
Sciences (e.g. medicine, computer science, chemistry, agriculture and engineering) are not
eligible for interview for the Master's Programme in Security and Human Rights.
Students holding a degree in L-14 Legal Sciences; L-16 Administrative and Organisational
Sciences; L-36 Political Sciences and International Relations; L-37 Social Sciences for
Cooperation, Development and Peace; L-40 Sociology; L-42 History; LMG-01 Law, will sit a
short interview just to ascertain their motivation.
Students who hold a degree in subjects closely related to the admission requirements
(e.g. Journalism, Pedagogy, Literature, Languages, and Humanities) will be asked to attend
an in-depth interview.

-- 2 of 10 --

If you have any doubts or questions, please send an email to security.humanrights@unitus.it.
In compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation EU 2016/679, the University will treat
information provided by applicants as confidential: all data provided will be processed
exclusively for the purposes to establish and manage the relationship of the student within the
University of Tuscia.
Your email (hibalaalmi542@gmail.com) was recorded when you submitted this form.
SECTION A – Identification and Contacts
Name *
HIBA
Family name
*
LALMI
Email *
hibalaalmi542@gmail.com
Gender *
Female
Male
Prefer not to say
Date of Birth *

-- 3 of 10 --

MM
01 /
DD
28 /
YYYY
2002
Place of Birth *
BATNA
Nationality
*
ALGERIAN
SECTION B – Identity Document
Upload a copy of your passport
*
Submitted files
passport (2) - Hiba Laalmi.pdf
SECTION C – Qualifying Educational Qualification
REMINDER:
To assess whether your Bachelor's degree meets the entry requirements for the International Master's
Programme in Security and Human Rights at the University of Tuscia, please refer to Article 5 of the Course
Rules:
- Bachelor's degrees in hard sciences (e.g. medicine, computer science, chemistry, agriculture and
engineering) are not eligible for enrolment on the Master's Programme in Security and Human Rights.
- Bachelor's degrees in L-14 Legal Sciences, L-16 Administrative and Organisational Sciences, L-36
Political Sciences and International Relations, L-37 Social Sciences for Cooperation, Development
and Peace, L-40 Sociology, L-42 History and LMG-01 Law allow fast-track (preferential) admission to the
programme.
- Bachelor's degrees in Journalism, Pedagogy, Literature, Languages and Humanities will follow the
standard admission process, which includes a thorough pre-evaluation of motivation and skills.

-- 4 of 10 --

Your Bachelor's degree title
*
law and political science
Your Bachelor's graduation year
*
2023
University where you obtained your Bachelor's degree
*
university of batna 1
Upload your Bachelor's degree certificate or an official enrollment certificate
declaring final-year status
*
Submitted files
BACHELORS DEGREE - Hiba Laalmi.pdf
Upload your transcript of records with a full list of passed exams and GPA
*
Submitted files
Marks Transcript - Hiba Laalmi.pdf
Upload the document with grading scale
*
This requires an official certificate detailing the institution's grading system, such as pass/fail thresholds
and maximum scores, only when absent from prior submissions like the transcript.
Submitted files

-- 5 of 10 --

syllabus - Hiba Laalmi.pdf
SECTION D – Academic Evaluation
Your CGPA
*
10.23
Minimum GPA at your University *
0
Maximum GPA at your University *
20
SECTION E – Language Requirements
Certify your language skills
*
English B2 certificate
Upload English language certificate at B2 level or an evidence that your Bachelor's
degree course was taught in English
*
Submitted files
EnglishScore_Certificate - Hiba Laalmi.pdf

-- 6 of 10 --

SECTION F – Curriculum, Motivation and Reference
Please note that all items in this section must be tailored to the Master's Programme in Security and
Human Rights at the University of Tuscia. Applications containing generic content or content created with
AI will be disqualified and the applicant will be excluded from the interview.
Upload your Resume ( 2-page Curriculum Vitae)
*
Please note that your CV must be two pages long (longer CVs will not be considered) and must be written
using the Europass template. Please download the template here: www.modelli-di-curriculum.it/cv-
europass/.
Submitted files
Curriculum Vitae - Hiba Laalmi.pdf
Upload your Motivation letter (1 page)
*
Please note that your motivation letter must demonstrate a relevant interest in and expertise in the fields
covered by the study plan of the Master's Degree Programme in Security and Human Rights at the
University of Tuscia. Motivation letters that do not reference the study plan of the Master's Degree
Programme in Security and Human Rights at the University of Tuscia will not be considered and will render
the application incomplete. Do not use artificial intelligence systems to write your motivation letter. Our
university system can detect the use of AI and disqualify your application. If you know any former LM-90
students who advised you to enrol on the Master's programme, please state this, providing the name and
email address of the student in question.
Submitted files
Motivation_Letter_Tuscia - Hiba Laalmi.pdf
Upload your Reference letter (1 page)
*
Please note that your Reference letter must be written by one of your academic mentors, preferably one of
the professors from your Bachelor's Degree Programme. The Reference letter should be signed and dated;
it should detail your skills and competencies in the subject areas covered by the Master's Programme you
are applying for (Legal Sciences; Administrative and Organisational Sciences; Political Sciences and
International Relations; Social Sciences for Cooperation, Development and Peace; Sociology; History;
Philosophy; Law) or related subjects (Journalism, Pedagogy, Literature, Languages, and Humanities). It
should be addressed to Prof. Daniela Vitiello, Coordinator of the International Master's Degree Programme
in Security and Human Rights at the University of Tuscia, and dated 2026. Reference letters that do not
respect the abovementioned requisites will not be considered and will render the application incomplete
and automatically rejected.
Submitted files

-- 7 of 10 --

lettre de recomandation - Hiba Laalmi.pdf
SECTION G – Interview (eligibility, rules, dates)
Please note that if you were admitted within the last two academic years and you have a letter of invitation
issued by the coordinator of the International Master's Programme in Security and Human Rights within the
last two years, you are not required to attend a new interview. You can proceed directly with the enrolment
procedure.
REMINDER:
ADMISSION CRITERIA AND INTERVIEW MODES ACCORDING TO ART. 5 OF THE COURSE RULES
Please note that, according to Art. 5 of the Course Rules, Bachelor's degrees in the Hard Sciences (e.g.
medicine, computer science, chemistry, agriculture and engineering) are not eligible for interview for the
Master's Programme in Security and Human Rights.
Students holding a degree in L-14 Legal Sciences; L-16 Administrative and Organisational Sciences; L-
36 Political Sciences and International Relations; L-37 Social Sciences for Cooperation, Development
and Peace; L-40 Sociology; L-42 History; LMG-01 Law, will sit a short interview just to ascertain their
motivation.
Students who hold a degree in subjects closely related to the admission requirements (e.g. Journalism,
Pedagogy, Literature, Languages, and Humanities) will be asked to attend an in-depth interview.
Compliance with the Course Rules
*
I have been admitted in the last 2 year (you don't need to book an interview)
I hold a degree in L-14 Legal Sciences; L-16 Administrative and Organisational Sciences; L-36
Political Sciences and International Relations; L-37 Social Sciences for Cooperation,
Development and Peace; L-40 Sociology; L-42 History; LMG-01 Law
I hold a degree in subjects closely related to the admission requirements, but which do not
clearly meet the enrolment criteria
Upload your Letter of Invitation (if you already have one)
Please note that if you were admitted within the last two academic years, you are required to upload your
letter of invitation, signed by the course coordinator. Failure to do so will render the application invalid.
No files submitted
Select the date for your admission interview
*

-- 8 of 10 --

27 March
10 April
17 April
24 April
8 May
15 May
SECTION H – Final Declarations
By submitting this form, you declare under your own responsibility that the information and documents
provided are complete and truthful.These declarations are mandatory to proceed with the admission pre-
evaluation.
Final declarations *
✓ I declare that I hold a valid passport
✓ I declare that I have the financial means to live and study in Viterbo for the duration of the
Master's programme.
✓ I declare that I possess a Bachelor’s degree granting access to a Master’s degree
✓ I declare that I meet the English language requirements (B2 level)
✓ I declare that I am ready for the Universitaly pre-enrolment procedure
✓ I declare that all uploaded documents are authentic and officially issued
✓ I declare that I am aware that incomplete documentation may result in rejection
✓ I acknowledge that the pre-evaluation does not imply automatic admission
✓
I declare that I have read and understood the Unitus regulations on tuition fees and
contributions published on the University’s website, and that I am able to cover the required
tuition costs
The Unitus regulations on tuition fees and contributions are available on the
University’s website here.

-- 9 of 10 --

Please complete, sign, and upload the self-declaration available here.
*
Submitted files
01 - Hiba Laalmi.pdf
SECTION I – Information Source
Where did you find information about our Master's Degree programme? *
University of Tuscia official website
Universitaly portal
Friends / alumni
Social media (Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn, etc.)
Education fair or international event
Study abroad agency / educational consultant
Search engine (Google, etc.)
Other:
Create your own Google Form
Does this form look suspicious? Report

-- 10 of 10 --

