Harmonised application form
Application for Schengen Visa
This application form is free
1
Family members of EU, EEA or CH citizens or of UK nationals who are beneficiaries of the EU-UK Withdrawal Agreement
shall not fill in fields No 21, 22, 31, 32 and 33 (marked with*).
Fields 1–3 shall be filled in in accordance with the data in the travel document.
1. Surname (Family name): 	For official use only
Date of application:
Application number:
2. Surname at birth (Former family name(s)):
3. First name(s) (Given name(s)):
4. Date of birth (day-
month-year):
5. Place of birth:
6. Country of birth:
7. Current nationality:
Nationality at birth, if
different:
Other nationalities:
Application lodged at:
☐ Embassy/
Consulate
☐ Service provider
☐ Commercial
intermediary
8. Sex:
☐ Male
☐ Female
☐ Other
9. Civil status:
☐Single ☐ Married ☐ Registered Partnership ☐ Separated ☐ Divorced ☐
Widow(er) ☐ Other (please specify):
☐ Border (Name):
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
☐ Other:
10. Parental authority (in case of minors)/legal guardian (surname, first name, address, if
different from applicant’s, telephone No, email address, and nationality):
File handled by:
11. National identity number, where applicable: 	Supporting
documents:
☐ Travel document
☐ Means of
subsistence
☐ Invitation
1 No logo is required for Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Switzerland.
TIFRANI
TIFRANI
RACHID
1964-05-31
BOUZINA
ALGERIA
ALGERIA
ALGERIA
X X

-- 1 of 4 --

12. Type of travel document:
☐ Ordinary passport ☐ Diplomatic passport ☐ Service passport
☐ Official passport ☐ Special passport
☐ Other travel document (please specify):
☐ TMI
☐ Means of
transport
☐ Other:
Visa decision:
☐ Refused
☐ Issued:
☐ A
☐ C
☐ LTV
☐ Valid:
From:
Until:
13. Number of travel
document:
14. Date of issue: 15. Valid until: 16. Issued by
(country):
17. Personal data of the family member who is an EU, EEA or CH citizen or a UK national who
is a beneficiary of the EU-UK Withdrawal Agreement, if applicable
Surname (Family name): 	First name(s) (Given name(s)):
Date of birth (day-
month-year):
Nationality: Number of travel
document or ID card:
18. Family relationship with an EU, EEA or CH citizen or a UK national who is a beneficiary of
the EU-UK Withdrawal Agreement, if applicable:
☐ spouse ☐ child ☐ grandchild ☐ dependent ascendant
☐ registered partnership ☐ other:
19. Applicant’s home address and email address: 	Telephone no.:
20. Residence in a country other than the country of current nationality:
☐ No
☐ Yes. Residence permit or equivalent . . . . . . . . . . . . . No. . . . . . . . . . . . . . Valid until. . . . . . . . . . . . .
21. * Current occupation: 	Number of entries:
☐ 1 ☐ 2 ☐ Multiple
Number of days:	22. * Employer and employer’s address and telephone number. For students, name and address
of educational establishment:
23. Purpose(s) of the journey:
☐ Tourism ☐ Business ☐ Visiting family or friends Cultural ☐ Sports ☐ Official visit ☐ Medical
reasons Study ☐ Airport transit ☐ Other (please specify):
24. Additional information on purpose of stay:
25. Member State of main destination (and
other Member States of destination, if
applicable):
26. Member State of first entry:
27. Number of entries requested:
☐ Single entry ☐ Two entries ☐ Multiple entries
28. Intended date of arrival of the first intended stay in the Schengen area:
X
303401803
2025-07-22 2035-07-21 ALGERIA
BATNA CITY CENTER BATNA 05000,
HACHOUKARIM2025@OUTLOOK.FR +213668419676
X
RETIRED
PRIMARY SCHOOL SIHEDM MILOUD BISKRA, BATNA CITY CENTER BATNA
05000, +213668419676
X
PORTUGAL PORTUGAL
X
2026-04-30

-- 2 of 4 --

Intended date of departure from the Schengen area after the first intended stay:
29. Fingerprints collected previously for the purpose of applying for a Schengen visa:
☐ No ☐ Yes.
Date, if known . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Number of the visa, if known . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
30. Entry permit for the final country of destination, where applicable:
Issued by . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Valid from . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . until . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
31. *Surname and first name of the inviting person(s) in the Member State(s). If not applicable,
name of hotel(s) or temporary accommodation(s) in the Member State(s):
Address and email address of inviting person(s)/
hotel(s)/temporary accommodation(s):
Telephone No:
32. *Name and address of inviting company/organisation:
Surname, first name, address, telephone No, and
email address of contact person in company/
organisation:
Telephone No of company/organisation:
33. *Cost of travelling and living during the applicant’s stay is covered:
☐ by the applicant
Means of support:
☐ Cash
☐ Traveller’s cheques
☐ Credit card
☐ Pre-paid accommodation
☐ Pre-paid transport
☐ Other (please specify):
☐ by a sponsor (host, company,
organisation), please specify:
☐ referred to in field 30 or 31
☐ other (please specify):
Means of support:
☐ Cash
☐ Accommodation provided
☐ All expenses covered during the stay
☐ Pre-paid transport
☐ Other (please specify):
34. Surname and first name of the person filling in the application form, if different from the
applicant:
Address and email address of the person filling in
the application form:
Telephone No:
2026-05-07
X
INDEPENDENTE PRINCIPE REAL
[1] +351932357184
X
X
See below [1] 'RUA DE SAO PEDRO DE ALCANTARA, 81, BAIRRO ALTO, LISBONNE, PORTUGAL. LISBONNE 1250-001,
PORTUGAL, FRONTOFFICE_IPR@INDEPENDENTE.EU';

-- 3 of 4 --

I am aware that the visa fee is not refunded if the visa is refused.
Applicable in case a multiple-entry visa is issued:
I am aware of the need to have adequate travel medical insurance for my first stay and any subsequent visits to
the territory of Member States.
I am aware of and consent to the following: the collection of the data required by this application form and the taking of my
photograph and, if applicable, the taking of fingerprints, are mandatory for the examination of the application; and any
personal data concerning me which appear on the application form, as well as my fingerprints and my photograph will be
supplied to the relevant authorities of the Member States and processed by those authorities, for the purposes of a decision on
my application.
Such data as well as data concerning the decision taken on my application or a decision whether to annul, revoke or extend
a visa issued will be entered into and stored in the Visa Information System (VIS) for a maximum period of five years, during
which it will be accessible to the visa authorities and the authorities competent for carrying out checks on visas at external
borders and within the Member States, immigration and asylum authorities in the Member States for the purposes of
verifying whether the conditions for the legal entry into, stay and residence on the territory of the Member States are
fulfilled, of identifying persons who do not or who no longer fulfil these conditions, of examining an asylum application
and of determining responsibility for such examination. Under certain conditions the data will be also available to
designated authorities of the Member States and to Europol for the purpose of the prevention, detection and investigation
of terrorist offences and of other serious criminal offences. The authority of the Member State responsible for processing
the data is: Directorate General for Consular Affairs and the Portuguese Communities (DGACCP).
I am aware that I have the right to obtain, in any of the Member States, notification of the data relating to me recorded in
the VIS and of the Member State which transmitted the data, and to request that data relating to me which are inaccurate be
corrected and that data relating to me processed unlawfully be deleted. At my express request, the authority examining my
application will inform me of the manner in which I may exercise my right to check the personal data concerning me and
have them corrected or deleted, including the related remedies according to the national law of the Member State
concerned. The national supervisory authority of that Member State [Portuguese Data Protection Commission
(CNPD) – Av. D. Carlos I, nº. 134 – 1º, 1200-651 Lisboa, - www.cnpd.pt] will hear claims concerning the protection of
personal data.
I declare that to the best of my knowledge all particulars supplied by me are correct and complete. I am aware that any false
statements will lead to my application being rejected or to the annulment of a visa already granted and may also render me
liable to prosecution under the law of the Member State which deals with the application.
I undertake to leave the territory of the Member States before the expiry of the visa, if granted. I have been informed that
possession of a visa is only one of the prerequisites for entry into the European territory of the Member States. The mere
fact that a visa has been granted to me does not mean that I will be entitled to compensation if I fail to comply with the
relevant provisions of Article 6(1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/399 (Schengen Borders Code) and I am therefore refused entry. The
prerequisites for entry will be checked again on entry into the European territory of the Member States.
Place and date: 	Signature of applicant:
(signature of parental authority/legal guardian, if
applicable):

-- 4 of 4 --

