- 1 -
Call for Applications for the admissions to the Bachelor’s Degree Programmes in Business and
Economics – CLABE (Bologna) and Management and Economics – CLAME (Forlì) with limited
number of positions.
This is an adapted translation in English of the original Call for Applications (“Bando di Ammissione”) in Italian
and it is made only for publicity purposes. To enforce the call, resolve any dispute and for all legal purposes
only the Italian version will be valid, and will prevail in the exact interpretation of the rules contained within.
Academic Year 2025/2026
The present call for applications contains the rules and procedures to be admitted to the above
Bachelor’s degree programmes.
For information about the degree programmes, click on the links below reported in the table.
Please regularly check Studenti Online (www.studenti.unibo.it) and your e-mail account
(name.surname@studio.unibo.it) at the link https://posta.studio.unibo.it. You will be informed
about your situation (i.e. ranking, clearing procedure, enrolment, etc….) exclusively through these
channels.
Degree
programme
code
Name of the Degree
programme
Class Degree Programme website
6609 Business and Economics
(Bologna)
L-18 https://corsi.unibo.it/1cycle/CLaBE
6614 Management and Economics
(Forlì)
L-18 https://corsi.unibo.it/1cycle/Management
INDEX
GENERAL CALENDAR ...................................................................................................................... - 2 -
1. REQUIREMENTS AND GENERAL INFORMATION .......................................................................... - 3 -
2. HOW TO APPLY (ENROLMENT IN THE SELECTION PROCEDURE) .................................................... - 5 -
3. COLLEGE BOARD: REQUEST TO SEND OFFICIAL SAT RESULTS TO THE UNIVERSITY OF BOLOGNA ....... - 8 -
4. SELECTION PROCEDURE .......................................................................................................... - 8 -
5. RANKING ............................................................................................................................... - 8 -
6. ENROLMENT IN THE DEGREE PROGRAMME ............................................................................... - 9 -
7. REALLOCATION OF VACANT POSITIONS AND TRANSFERS ........................................................... - 15 -
8. FINAL REMARKS AND CONTACTS ............................................................................................ - 19 -

-- 1 of 20 --

- 2 -
GENERAL CALENDAR
The deadlines indicated below are mandatory and cannot be waived in any way, otherwise you
will be excluded from the selection procedure.
FIRST INTAKE (for Italian citizens, EU citizens, non-EU citizens with equivalent status, non-EU
citizens residing abroad competing with EU students for admission and non-EU citizens residing
abroad):
STEPS DEADLINES
1. Application (enrolment in the selection procedure)
(UniBo must receive your SAT-General Test score by 29/April/2025)
From 3/Feb/2025 to
29/April/2025 - 1 p.m.
(local time)
2. Posting of the ranking 23/May/2025
3. Enrolment in the degree programmes for admitted candidates From 29/May/2025 to
5/June/2025
4. Declaration of interest in the first reallocation of vacant
positions/transfer to the preferred programme
From 29/May/2025 at 3
p.m. to 5/June/2025
5. Posting of candidates admitted to the first reallocation/transfer 9/June/2025
6. Period of enrolment for candidates admitted to first reallocation/
transfer activation
From 9/June/2025 to
16/June/2025
7. Declaration of interest in the second reallocation of vacant
positions/transfer to the preferred programme
From 9/June/2025 at 3
p.m. to 16/June/2025
8. Posting of candidates admitted to the second reallocation/transfer 18/June/2025
9. Period of enrolment for candidates admitted to second reallocation/
transfer activation
From 18/June/2025 to
25/June/2025
SECOND INTAKE (for Italian citizens, EU citizens, non-EU citizens with equivalent status and non-
EU citizens residing abroad competing with EU students for admission):
STEPS DEADLINES
1. Application (enrolment in the selection procedure)
(UniBo must receive your SAT-General Test score by 7/July/2025)
From 30/April/2025 to
7/July/2025 - 1 p.m.
(local time)
2. Posting of the ranking 21/July/2025
3. Enrolment in the degree programmes for admitted candidates From 24/July/2025 to
30/July/2025
4. Declaration of interest in the first reallocation of vacant
positions/transfer to the preferred programme
From 24/July/2025 at
3 p.m. to 30/July/2025
5. Posting of candidates admitted to the first reallocation/transfer 1/August/2025
6. Period of enrolment for candidates admitted to first reallocation/
transfer activation
From 1/August/2025
to 8/August/2025
7. Declaration of interest in the second reallocation of vacant
positions/transfer to the preferred programme
From 1/August/2025
at 3 p.m. to
8/August/2025

-- 2 of 20 --

- 3 -
STEPS DEADLINES
8. Posting of candidates admitted to the second reallocation/transfer 25/August/2025
9. Period of enrolment for candidates admitted to second reallocation/
transfer activation
From 25/August/2025
to 1/September/2025
POSSIBLE THIRD INTAKE (for Italian citizens, EU citizens, non-EU citizens with equivalent status
and non-EU citizens residing abroad competing with EU students for admission). The intake will
take place only in case of vacant positions.
STEPS DEADLINES
1. Application (enrolment in the selection procedure)
(UniBo must receive your SAT-General Test score by
10/September/2025)
From
03/September/2025 to
10/September/2025 - 1
p.m. (local time)
2. Posting of the ranking 19/September/2025
3. Enrolment in the degree programmes for admitted candidates From
23/September/2025 to
30/September/2025
4. Declaration of interest in the reallocation of vacant positions/transfer
to the preferred programme
From
23/September/2025 at
3 p.m. to
30/September/2025
5. Posting of candidates admitted to the reallocation/transfer 02/October/2025
6. Period of enrolment for candidates admitted to reallocation/ transfer
activation
From 02/October/2025
to 09/October/2025
1. REQUIREMENTS AND GENERAL INFORMATION
Deadline to obtain the high-school diploma 31/Dec/2025

-- 3 of 20 --

- 4 -
In order to be admitted to the degree programme, you have to participate in one of the selection
procedures (intakes).
There are two intakes and one possible extraordinary one – for each one, you have to meet the
deadlines indicated in the General Calendar.
In order to participate, you have to fulfil the admission requirements indicated in the paragraph
1.1 “Admission requirements”.
1.1. Admission requirements
You can be admitted to the selection procedure (and you will be able to enrol in the degree
programme) if:
• You hold at least one of the following qualifications:
o 5-year high-school diploma awarded by institutions of upper secondary education
(including high-school diplomas awarded by educational institutions and artistic high-
schools with an additional annual supplementary programme) or a pilot 4-year high-
school diploma issued by an institute admitted to the 4-year secondary high school
trial. You can apply for the degree programme even if you have not obtained your
upper secondary school diploma yet, but you have to obtain it by the deadline of 31st
December 2025, otherwise your enrolment will be cancelled.
o 4-year high-school diploma awarded by institutions of upper secondary education
where the additional supplementary year is not active. In this case, you have to fulfil a
specific additional learning activity at the University of Bologna by March 31st, 2027. If
you fail, you will be enrolled in the 1st year again also for the following academic year
as repeating student;
o Qualifications obtained abroad, after twelve years of schooling, allowing the admission
to the University and to the chosen degree programme in the country where the
qualification was issued, according to the established ministerial rules - see the Circular
of the Ministry of University and Research that is published each year in the period
April-June at http://www.studiare-in-italia.it/studentistranieri.
Check the detailed information on the University Portal:
https://www.unibo.it/en/teaching/enrolment-transfer-and-final-
examination/enrolling-in-first-or-single-cycle-degree-programme-foreign-qualification
You have to obtain your qualification and the required additional integration (if
necessary) within December 31st, 2025, otherwise your enrolment will be cancelled.
The verification of the eligibility of the qualification obtained abroad will be carried out
only after enrollment and upon uploading the documents as indicated in paragraph 6.1
• You have taken the Digital SAT test.
The SAT Test is organized by the College Board www.collegeboard.org and you can take it in
any of the SAT Centres in Italy or abroad.
You do not have to take the ESSAY of the SAT Test because it does not supply any additional
points.
The SAT Tests are valid if you have taken them starting from 1st February 2023.

-- 4 of 20 --

- 5 -
The SAT score is valid and you can be admitted to the selection procedure only if your SAT
score has been received by the University of Bologna within the deadline established for each
intake (see the General Calendar), with the procedures described in paragraphs 2.1. e 3.
A good proficiency (B2 level at least) in English is required. Candidates are considered to have met
the language requirement by taking the SAT Test since it is held in English.
1.2. Available positions
For the academic year 2025/2026, the following positions are available in the two intakes:
Degree
programme
Total n. of
positions
Positions 1st
intake
Positions 2nd
intake
Possible
extraordinary intake
6609 – BUSINESS
AND ECONOMICS -
CLABE
177 85 – EU and
equivalent
32 – non-EU
residing abroad
60 + possible
residual positions
from the 1st intake
– EU and
equivalent only
Only residual
positions (if any)
6614 –
MANAGEMENT
AND ECONOMICS
– CLAME
75 35 – EU and
equivalent
20 – non-EU
residing abroad
20 + possible
residual positions
from the 1st intake
– EU and
equivalent only
Only residual
positions (if any)
Additional positions for special programmes: 13 positions for CLABE and 5 positions for CLAME.
The selection procedures for candidates participating in special programmes may take place at
different times to those indicated in this call due to the different admission procedure timeframes.
For information, contact: internationaldesk@unibo.it.
The positions are split into two quotas:
• Positions for Italian citizens, EU citizens, non-EU citizens with equivalent status and non-EU
citizens residing abroad competing with EU students for admission who can participate in all
the intakes.
• Positions for non -EU citizens residing abroad (international students’ quota) who can
participate exclusively in the first intake for the quota reserved for them.
If the positions reserved for non-EU citizens residing abroad are not fully covered, they will be
made available to the EU and non-EU citizens with equivalent status quota in the second intake.
If the positions reserved for special programmes are not fully covered, they will be made available
to the EU citizens and non-EU citizens with equivalent status quota in the second intake.
2. HOW TO APPLY (enrolment in the selection procedure)
You can participate:

-- 5 of 20 --

- 6 -
• In all the intakes if you are an Italian citizen, EU citizen or non-EU citizen with equivalent
status, following the instructions in paragraph 2.1;
• In all the intakes if you are a non-EU citizen residing abroad competing with EU students,
following the instructions in paragraph 2.1. Indeed, even if you are exempted from the quota
reserved for non-EU international students, you have to fulfil the procedures for non-EU
citizens residing abroad;
• In the first intake only if you are a non-EU citizen residing abroad, following the instructions
in paragraph 2.1.
Carefully check the quota you have to refer to at the link
https://www.unibo.it/en/international/Who-are-international-students
For non-EU citizens with equivalent status, please check very carefully which types of residence
permit allow for the equivalence. If you participate in the selection process as a non-EU citizen
with equivalent status without being in possession of the equivalence requirements, you will not
be able to complete the enrolment even if you have already been admitted and paid for the first
instalment.
You may express up to two preferences, the programme of first choice being the one of greatest
interest.
Anyone wishing to enrol in the programme (even if wishing to enrol in the 2nd or 3rd year) must
undergo selection procedure according to the steps and deadlines in this call for applications.
2.1 Guidelines on how to apply
Apply for one of the intakes on Studenti Online within the mandatory deadlines established in the
General Calendar and follow the steps reported below.
The application for one of the intakes is valid for that intake only and not for the following ones.
If you are not admitted to the programme in one intake and you want to apply for a following one,
you have to apply again according to the mandatory deadline established for each intake in the
General Calendar, otherwise you will be excluded from the selection procedure.
• Connect to Studenti Online (www.studenti.unibo.it) using your SPID or CIE account. The
system collects automatically your data and creates your University of Bologna Username
(name.surname@studio.unibo.it).
If you are a minor or an international student without an identity document issued in Italy,
you can obtain your username and password at www.studenti.unibo.it selecting “Register”
then “International students’ registration”.
Attention! The data entered on www.studenti.unibo.it (name, surname, date and place of
birth, e-mail address) must be the same as the ones entered on www.collegeboard.org (that
will be reported in the SAT Test certification), otherwise you will be excluded from the
admission procedure.
Compulsory requirements to be included in the ranking:

-- 6 of 20 --

- 7 -
- the personal data registered on Studenti Online www.studenti.unibo.it (name, surname, date
and place of birth) must coincide with the data reported on the SAT Test certification used to
participate in the selection, otherwise you will be excluded from the selection procedure;
- the email address indicated at the time of registration on the College Board website must be
the same of one of the two email addresses indicated on your personal profile on
StudentiOnline (below reported), otherwise you will be excluded from the selection
procedure:
a) the institutional email address, automatically assigned by the University, with the
format name.surname@studio.unibo.it
OR
b) the personal e-mail address entered when registering on Studenti Online
• Enrol in the selection procedure.
o Click on “Admission Application – Take part in the selection”;
o Select “First-cycle degree programme”;
o Select “Admission to the degree programmes CLABE (BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS) –
CLAME (MANAGEMENT AND ECONOMICS)”.
o Select the degree programme or programmes you wish to apply for. You can apply for
one programme only or for both. If you apply for both, you can indicate your
preference (the first-choice programme is the one you are more interested in).
Pay close attention to the preferences as, once entered, they cannot be modified,
regardless of the reasons given.
• Upload the required documents
Italian, EU citizens and non-EU citizens with equivalents must upload:
o Copy of ID card/passport;
o Copy of a valid residence permit or receipt of the renewal request (mandatory only for
non-EU citizens with equivalent status).
Non-EU citizens residing abroad must upload:
o Copy of the passport.
• Complete the mandatory declarations that are required during the application procedure
for the selection process.
• Pay the application fee.
Follow the instructions on Studenti Online (www.studenti.unibo.it) and pay the 20,00 €
application fee. The application fee cannot be reimbursed in any case, and it is valid also to
participate in the following intakes of the present call for applications. (Please see the
General Calendar).
The enrolment in the selection procedure is valid only after the payment.

-- 7 of 20 --

- 8 -
You are admitted to the selection procedure only if you have completed the enrolment in the
selection procedure and paid the application fee within the deadlines and according to the
procedures mentioned above.
Once the deadline to apply has expired, it will not be possible to change your preference for the
programmes anymore.
If you need assistance to fill in your application, you can contact the Studenti Online Help Desk at
the phone n. + 39 051 20.80.301 or by e-mail at help.studentionline@unibo.it.
PLEASE NOTE:
If you are a non-EU citizen with a permit of stay for study reasons and you formally withdraw from
studies in this or another University, you lose the requisites to study in Italy with the consequent
revocation of the permit of stay. Therefore, you will have to go back to your home country and
pre-enrol at the relevant Italian diplomatic representations on www.universitaly.it within the
deadlines defined every year and published at www.studiare-in-italia.it/studentistranieri/.
3. COLLEGE BOARD: REQUEST TO SEND OFFICIAL SAT RESULTS TO THE UNIVERSITY OF BOLOGNA
All candidates must request the College Board to send the official results (official score report) to
the University of Bologna using the relevant code (code 6993), otherwise they will be excluded
from the selection procedure. Please note: the SAT score report must be sent by the College Board
within the deadlines reported in the General Calendar.
Please note: if the College Board does not send your SAT score within the deadline indicated in
the General Calendar, you are excluded from the ranking and therefore will not be able to enrol
in the programme. Therefore, we recommend asking the College Board to send your official
score report in advance, taking into account the timing for the release of test results and for
their transmission by the College Board itself. Candidates must collect information about the
timing for the release of the SAT Official Score and about the possibility for rush reporting
directly with the College Board.
No other methods of sending SAT scores shall be accepted.
4. SELECTION PROCEDURE
The ranking is drawn up by an admission board, made of at least three professors and assistant
professors chosen among the teaching and research staff of the degree programmes, that is
appointed to guarantee that the selection procedure is correctly carried out. The rankings are
based on the SAT scores received by the College Board in accordance with the instructions at
paragraph 2.1.
Only the SAT tests taken starting from 1st February 2023 are valid in order to be admitted to the
selection procedure.
If several SAT scores are received for the same candidate, the one with the highest total score
shall be considered for the ranking.
5. RANKING

-- 8 of 20 --

- 9 -
For each intake, candidates are listed in the ranking according to their score.
The rankings are officially notified on Studenti Online (www.studenti.unibo.it), in the main page -
in the detail of your applications (in the list of “ongoing requests”) on the dates indicated in the
General Calendar.
This publication is the only legal means of notifying the outcomes of the selection procedures.
The position obtained in one intake is not relevant for the following ones. The selection procedure
of each intake is independent from the other ones.
5.1 Assessment Criteria
The committee will extract the SAT scores and formulate the rankings on a scale of 160, calculated
as the SAT score divided by 10.
If several scores (valid for the selection procedure) are received for the same candidate, the
highest one shall be considered.
In case two candidates receive the same score, priority will be given to the youngest candidate.
Please note: Candidates are admitted to the degree programmes taking into account, first of all,
their position in the general ranking and, if possible (i.e., if there are available positions), the
preference they expressed during the application procedure.
Therefore, if you have applied for both degree programmes and you are admitted in the general
ranking, but there are no available positions in your preferred programme (first choice), you are
admitted and shall enrol in the degree programme indicated as the second choice, according to
the places available for each intake.
Candidates admitted to their first- or second-choice degree programme, must enrol within the
deadlines and according to the procedures of the present call. Otherwise, they shall be deemed to
have tacitly renounced to both the degree programmes (CLABE or CLAME), independently of the
reasons, and they shall be excluded from any of following phases of the procedure.
5.2 Ranking and Additional learning requirements (OFA – Obbligo formativo aggiuntivo)
In all the intakes, the Additional learning requirements (OFA) are assigned to candidates who
obtained a score lower than 500/800 in the “Math” section of the SAT Test.
The deadline to complete the OFA is March 31st, 2027. Students who do not complete the OFA
within the deadline will be still enrolled in the 1st year (as repeating students) for the a.y. 2026/27.
6. ENROLMENT IN THE DEGREE PROGRAMME
If you are admitted in the ranking, you must enrol within the mandatory deadlines of each intake,
indicated in the General Calendar.
Please note: Candidates admitted to the second-choice degree programme must enrol according
to the specified procedures and deadlines. Otherwise, they will be considered as implicitly
renouncing for all the options expressed at the time of application, regardless of any justifying

-- 9 of 20 --

- 10 -
reasons, and they will be excluded from any subsequent phases of the selection process, including
the reallocation for vacant position/transfer to the 1st choice programme procedure.
If you enrol for the first time, follow the procedures indicated at paragraph 6.1.
If you have not obtained your high-school diploma yet, please check the specific additional
procedures on Studenti Online (www.studenti.unibo.it).
If you are a minor (i.e., you are younger than 18 years old) when you enrol, download the
“Consent form for underage students” form at this webpage. The form has to be filled in and
signed by your parents and sent to the Student Office for Economics, Management and Statistics
for CLABE and to the Student Office of Forlì campus for CLAME.
If you wish to ask for the recognition of your previous careers: after your enrolment and within
27th November 2025, you have to submit the request for the Shortening of the degree programme
— University of Bologna (unibo.it) according to the information at the link above. For CLABE you
have to refer to the Student office of Economics, Management and Statistics; for CLAME to the
Student office of Forlì campus.
If you are a student with a civil disability certification equal to or greater than 66% or with
certification under law 104/92, in order to obtain the exemption from tuition fees, you must
send the certificate attesting to your condition to the email address of the Student Office of
Economics, Management and Statistics for CLABE and to the Student Office of Forlì Campus for
CLAME, (for information: https://www.unibo.it/en/services-and-opportunities/study-grants-and-
subsidies/exemptions-and-incentives/exemptions-for-disabled-students).
If you are enrolled in another University and you want to transfer (transfer from another
University) or if you are enrolled in another degree programme of the University of Bologna and
you want to change your degree (change of the degree programme), follow the instructions at
paragraphs 6.2 or 6.3.
Information about fees and scholarships is available at paragraph 6.4.
6.1 How to enrol for the first time
Within the mandatory deadlines indicated for each intake in the General calendar, you have to:
• Connect to Studenti Online (www.studenti.unibo.it), with your SPID or CIE account or with
the username (name.surname@studio.unibo.it) and password received when applying;
• Select “Enrolments”, then “1st-cycle degree programme/bachelor’s degree” and the
programme you have been admitted to, enter the data required and upload your passport-
sized photo. In the event of false declarations, in addition to incurring the penalties laid down
in Article 496 of the Italian Penal Code, you will automatically lose your right to enrol and any
related benefits, without being entitled to any reimbursement of the payments made;

-- 10 of 20 --

- 11 -
• Pay the first instalment or the entire annual amount of the tuition fees according to the
procedures indicated on Studenti Online. If you do not pay in time, you will be excluded
from the enrolment procedure (late payments with additional fees are not accepted).
• Activate your student career:
o If you enrolled using your SPID or CIE account: after paying, your career will be
automatically activated (unless you are in one of the cases listed below);
o If you enrolled using your username and password: you have to follow the procedures
that you will find in the details of your enrolment request on Studenti Online.
You have to activate your career within 26th February 2026, otherwise your enrolment will
be cancelled.
After activating your career, you will have access to the university services such as the online
study plan, enrolment in exams, Wi-Fi, online library resources and laboratory and career
management (programme transfer, transfer to another university, withdrawal from studies).
Moreover, you will receive an e-mail with the instructions to print the student card.
In the following cases, check the further steps required to complete the activation of your
career:
o If you are a non-EU citizen with equivalent status holding a qualification obtained in Italy:
you must send a copy of the valid residence permit that allows for equivalence to the
relevant student office e-mail address (Student Office of Economics, Management and
Statistics for CLABE and Student Office of Forlì Campus for CLAME);
o If you are a student holding a foreign qualification, you shall check the information at the
link https://www.unibo.it/en/teaching/enrolment-transfer-and-final-
examination/enrolling-in-first-or-single-cycle-degree-programme-foreign-qualification ,
access to Studenti Online, select “Call for applications (BANDI)”, select “Enrolment a.y.
25_26 - international students and students with qualifications obtained abroad
documents upload”, upload the documents connected with your qualification and book an
appointment to show the original documents with the Student Office of Economics,
Management and Statistics for CLABE and the Student Office of Forlì Campus for CLAME;
o If you are a non-EU citizen with equivalent status holding a qualification obtained
abroad: you shall check the information at the link
https://www.unibo.it/en/teaching/enrolment-transfer-and-final-examination/enrolling-in-
first-or-single-cycle-degree-programme-foreign-qualification , access to Studenti Online,
select “Call for applications (BANDI)”, select “Enrolment a.y. 25_26 - international
students and students with qualifications obtained abroad documents upload”, upload the
documents connected with your qualification and copy of a valid permit of stay allowing for
equivalence and book an appointment to show the original documents with the Student
Office of Economics, Management and Statistics for CLABE and the Student Office of Forlì
Campus for CLAME.

-- 11 of 20 --

- 12 -
Attention: Please carefully verify who non-EU citizens with equivalent students are and
what types of residence permits allow for equivalence at
https://www.unibo.it/en/international/who-are-international-students/Who-are-
international-students. If you participate in the selection procedure as a non-EU citizen
with equivalent status without a valid qualification allowing for equivalence, you will not be
able to complete the enrolment, even if you have already been admitted and paid for the
first instalment of tuition fees;
o If you are a non-EU Citizen residing abroad holding a foreign qualification, you shall check
the information at the link https://www.unibo.it/en/teaching/enrolment-transfer-and-final-
examination/non-eu-students-with-residency-abroad-reserved-quotas-pre-enrolment-visas-and-
italian-language-tests, access to Studenti Online, select “Call for applications (BANDI)”, select
“Enrolment a.y. 25_26 - international students and students with qualifications obtained
abroad documents upload”, upload the documents connected with your qualification and a
copy of your VISA for study reasons. Moreover, upon your arrival, you have to book an
appointment to show the original documents with the Student Office of Economics,
Management and Statistics for CLABE and the Student Office of Forlì Campus for CLAME.
Attention: even if you have been admitted to the degree programme and accepted by the
University, you do not have any right to complete the enrolment even if you have already
obtained an entry visa and you are physically in Italy or you are suitable/have received a
scholarship/contribution of any kind, or if you have been accepted under conditions in
order to start your academic activities. In order to complete your enrolment in the
programme, it is necessary to verify that your foreign qualification is authentic and eligible
for the enrolment. The formal verification of the academic qualification will be conducted
by the International Student Office for CLABE or by the Student Office of Forlì campus for
CLAME after the payment of the first instalment of tuition fees and the submission of all
the original required documents.
o If you who want to apply for simultaneous enrolment in two degree programmes, check
the information https://www.unibo.it/en/teaching/enrolment-transfer-and-final-
examination/simultaneous-enrolment-in-different-courses to verify whether it is possible
and the required procedure.
6.2 How to enrol if you transfer from another University
Within the deadlines indicated in the General Calendar you have to:
• Connect to Studenti Online (www.studenti.unibo.it) with your SPID or CIE account or with
the University username (name.surname@studio.unibo.it) and password obtained when
applying;
• Select “Enrolments”, then “1st-cycle degree programme/bachelor’s degree” and the
programme you have been admitted to, enter the data required, upload your passport-sized

-- 12 of 20 --

- 13 -
photo and specify the University you come from. In the event of false declarations, in addition
to incurring the penalties laid down in Article 496 of the Italian Penal Code, you will
automatically lose your right to enrol and any related benefits, without being entitled to any
reimbursement of the payments made;
• Pay the first instalment or the entire annual amount of the tuition fees according to the
procedures indicated on Studenti Online (www.studenti.unibo.it).
• Submit the transfer application to the University of origin within the deadlines established
by the University of origin.
Your career at the University of Bologna will be active only after your degree-programme board
formally declares the recognition of your previous studies and the prosecution of the studies in
the degree programme.
You can take learning activities in the university of origin until you submit your transfer
application.
Once the Student office receives the documents from your University of origin, you will be asked
to pay for a specific transfer fee.
For more information, please see the following webpage: Transferring to the University of Bologna
— University of Bologna (unibo.it).
6.3 How to enrol if you change your degree programme within the University of Bologna and if
you participated in the first intake
If you are currently enrolled in another degree programme of the University of Bologna and you
participated in the first intake of the present call, you have to follow the procedures indicated
below within the deadlines specified in the General Calendar:
• Connect to Studenti Online (www.studenti.unibo.it) with your UniBo account
(name.surname@studio.unibo.it)
• Select “Enrolments”, then “1st-cycle degree programme/bachelor’s degree” and the
programme you have been admitted to, enter the data required and upload your
passport-sized photo. In the event of false declarations, in addition to incurring the
penalties laid down in Article 496 of the Italian Penal Code, you will automatically lose your
right to enrol and any related benefits, without being entitled to any reimbursement of the
payments made;
• Pay the first instalment or the entire annual amount of the tuition fees according to the
procedures indicated on Studenti Online (www.studenti.unibo.it)
• Starting from 24th July 2025 and within October 9th 2025, fill in the degree-programme
change application on Studenti Online (www.studenti.unibo.it):
o Click on “PASSAGGIO DI CORSO” (i.e., degree-programme change) and enter the
required data;
o Pay for the degree-programme change fee (if you enrol after being admitted in the
first intake, the amount will be notified after the decision of the competent bodies)

-- 13 of 20 --

- 14 -
Your career in the new study degree programme will be active only after your degree-programme
board formally declares the recognition of your previous studies and the prosecution of the
studies in the degree programme.
You can take learning activities in the degree programme of origin until you submit your degree-
programme change application.
1.2.1. How to enrol if you change your degree programme within the University of Bologna and
participated in the second intake or in the extraordinary one.
If you are currently enrolled in another degree programme of the University of Bologna and you
participated in the second intake or in the extraordinary one, you have to follow the procedures
below within the deadlines indicated in the General Calendar:
• Connect to Studenti Online with your SPID or CIE account or with the University username
(name.surname@studio.unibo.it) and password obtained when applying;
• pay the first instalment or the entire annual amount of the tuition fees of the course of
origin (having paid all tuition fees for the previous academic years);
• submit the request to change course by clicking on “PASSAGGIO DI CORSO” (i.e, degree-
programme change) entering the required data;
• Pay for the degree programme change fee.
Your career in the new study degree programme will be active only after your degree-programme
board formally declares the recognition of your previous studies and the prosecution of the
studies in the degree programme.
You can take learning activities in the degree programme of origin until you submit your degree-
programme change application.
Attention. In case of career abbreviation, course transfer, or admission to years beyond the first,
you will be officially moved, depending on the program you are admitted to, to the Business and
Economics program (code 8965) or the Management and Economics program (code 5892), where
the second and third years will be active for the academic year 2025/2026.
6.4 Tuition fees and study grants
The amount of the tuition fees and information about grants and exemptions are available at:
https://www.unibo.it/en/teaching/enrolment-transfer-and-final-examination/tuition-fees-and-
exemptions/tuition-fees.
Tuition fees are calculated proportionally to the currently valid ISEE (personal income) value, if
submitted according to the procedures and deadlines indicated at the webpage above.
If you do not submit the ISEE, you will have to pay for the maximum amount of the tuition fees
for your degree programme.
You can find more information about other subsidies at Services and opportunities — University of
Bologna (unibo.it)

-- 14 of 20 --

- 15 -
If you are interested in the right to higher education benefits, please see the call for applications
published by the Regional Agency for the Right to Higher Education at www.er-go.it.
If you are enrolled in a different degree programme before requesting to transfer or change your
degree programme, please carefully check the requirements of merit to access the benefits
described in the ER.GO Call for Applications published at www.er-go.it, as students’ careers will be
assessed starting from their first enrolment in the University, regardless of the recognition
obtained or the course year assigned to students by the Degree-Programme Board. This could be a
possible reason for a loss of benefits.
7. REALLOCATION OF VACANT POSITIONS AND TRANSFERS
The candidates admitted to the second-choice degree programme, must enrol according to the
procedures and deadlines of the present call otherwise they are considered tacitly renouncing all
the options indicated when applying, regardless of any justifying reasons, and they will be excluded
from any subsequent phases of the selection process, including relocation and transfer procedures.
With the reallocation procedure, after the enrolment by admitted candidates, possible vacant
positions are assigned to eligible candidates according to their position in the ranking and to the
preference expressed during the application procedure.
With the transfer procedure, candidates enrolled in their second-choice degree programme can be
moved to their first-choice course, in case of vacant positions.
The reallocation/transfer is not automatic. Candidates must always declare their interest in
participating in the reallocation/transfer procedure.
There are two reallocation/transfers procedures at the end of the first and second intake and one
at the end of extraordinary one.
You have to declare your interest in participating in the reallocation of vacant positions/transfer
within the mandatory deadlines indicated in the General Calendar, otherwise you cannot
participate in this procedure.
Once you declare your interest in participating in the reallocation of vacant positions/transfer,
you will not be able to change it anymore.
The list of candidates who have been assigned possible vacant positions/transferred to the
preferred degree programme is published on Studenti Online (www.studenti.unibo.it) in the
details of your application, on the dates established in the General Calendar.
7.1. Declaration of interest on the reallocation of vacant positions
If you are eligible in the ranking (ranked after the last admitted candidate) and you are interested
in the reallocation of possible vacant positions, you have to declare your interest by clicking on
the button “I wish to be reassigned” in the details of your application (“ongoing requests”) available
in the application detail section after the posting of the ranking, according to the deadlines
established in the General Calendar.

-- 15 of 20 --

- 16 -
If you do not declare your interest, you automatically withdraw from the enrolment procedure for
all the choices expressed when applying, regardless of your motivations and you will be excluded
from all the following phases of the selection procedure.
7.2. Declaration of interest in transferring to the first-choice degree programme
If you are enrolled in your second-choice degree programme and you are interested in being
transferred to your first-choice programme, you must declare your interest in being transferred
within the mandatory deadline indicated in the calendar. Otherwise, you will remain permanently
assigned to the degree programme in which you are enrolled.
With the transfer, students enrolled in their second-choice degree programme ask to be
transferred to their first-choice programme. The transfer will take place only if there are positions
available in the preferred degree programme.
Please note: in the first intake there are two reallocation/transfer procedures therefore if you do
not participate in the first one, you will not be able to participate in the second one.
The reallocation of vacant positions/transferring procedure includes two phases:
PHASE 1 - DECLARATION OF INTEREST IN THE REALLOCATION OF VACANT POSITIONS/TRANSFER:
REALLOCATION OF VACANT POSITIONS
If you are "Eligible" in the ranking (ranked after the last admitted candidate) and you are
interested in the reallocation of possible vacant positions, you have to follow the steps below
within the mandatory deadlines at point 4 and 7 of the General Calendar:
1. access Studenti Online (www.studenti.unibo.it), using your SPID or CIE account or by entering
your username (nome.cognome@studio.unibo.it) and password;
2. declare your interest in the reallocation of vacant positions, by clicking on the "I wish to be
reassigned (Desidero essere recuperato)" button in the details of the application, after the
posting of the ranking.
Possible vacant positions are reallocated exclusively according to ranking list order.
If you do not request to participate in the reallocation of vacant positions according to the above-
mentioned procedure, you are excluded from all the following procedures.
'Not-eligible', 'Absent' or 'Excluded' candidates cannot participate in the reallocation of vacant
positions.
The list of candidates admitted to the reallocation of vacant positions will be published on
www.studenti.unibo.it by the deadlines established at point 5 and 8 of the General Calendar.
The list is exclusively published on Studenti Online as is considered the only legal way to
communicate the outcomes of the reallocation procedure.
TRANSFER
If you are enrolled in your second-choice degree programme and you are interested in being
transferred to your first choice, you must:

-- 16 of 20 --

- 17 -
1. be enrolled in the second-choice programme according to the deadlines and procedures at
paragraph 6.1;
2. access Studenti Online (www.studenti.unibo.it), using your SPID or CIE account or by entering
your username (nome.cognome@studio.unibo.it) and password;
3. declare your interest in the transfer procedure, by clicking on the "I wish to be transferred
(Desidero essere spostato)" push button in the details of the application, after the posting of
the ranking.
Please remember that in order to be transferred, you must be enrolled in the second-choice
degree programme according to the procedure and deadlines established in the call for
applications.
Candidates are admitted to transferring exclusively according to ranking list order.
Candidates enrolled in the second-choice degree programme who do not request to participate in
the transfer procedure according to the indications above, will remain permanently enrolled in the
second-choice degree programme.
The list of candidates admitted to transferring to the first-choice degree programme will be
published on www.studenti.unibo.it by the deadlines established at point 5 and 8 of the General
Calendar.
PHASE 2 – ENROLMENT PROCEDURE FOR REALLOCATED CANDIDATES:
A. RELLOCATED CANDIDATES enrolling for the first time
You must enrol in the degree programme according to the procedures indicated in the
"Enrolment" section within the mandatory deadlines at point 6 and 9 (only for the first intake) of
the General Calendar.
B. REALLOCATED CANDIDATES currently enrolled in another University wishing to transfer.
If you are admitted at the end of the reallocation procedure and you are enrolled in another
University and you wish to transfer, you have to:
• enrol in the new degree programme by following the instructions at point A, indicating your
university and degree programme of origin;
• pay the first instalment of the annual tuition fees by the deadline of the General Calendar;
• submit the transfer application to your university of origin by its deadlines.
It will be possible to carry out teaching activities at the university of origin up to the submission of
the transfer application. At the University of Bologna, the career will be active only after the
degree-programme board has approved recognition and continuation of studies.
In addition to the instalment of the annual fee, it is also necessary to pay the specific transfer fee,
whose amount will be published at https://www.unibo.it/en/teaching/enrolment-transfer-and-
final-examination/transferring-to-the-university-of-bologna/transferring-to-the-university-of-
bologna and that the student office will request once it receives the documents sent by the
university of origin.

-- 17 of 20 --

- 18 -
C. REALLOCATED candidates in the first intake currently enrolled in other degree programmes at
the University of Bologna (Change of degree programme)
If you are currently enrolled in another degree programme at the University of Bologna and you
participated in the first or second intakes and you have been admitted to the programme following
the reallocation procedures, within the mandatory deadlines indicated at point 6 or 9 of the General
Calendar you shall:
• access Studenti Online (www.studenti.unibo.it), using your SPID or by entering your UniBo
username (nome.cognome@studio.unibo.it) and password;
• Select “Enrolments”, then “1st-cycle degree programme/bachelor’s degree” and the
programme you have been admitted to at the end of the reallocation procedure, enter
the data required and upload your passport-sized photo. In the event of false declarations,
in addition to incurring the penalties laid down in Article 496 of the Italian Penal Code, you
will automatically lose your right to enrol and any related benefits, without being entitled
to any reimbursement of the payments made;
• Pay the first instalment or the entire annual amount of the tuition fees according to the
procedures indicated on Studenti Online (www.studenti.unibo.it)
• Starting from 24th July 2025 and within 9th October 2025, fill in the degree-programme
change application on Studenti Online (www.studenti.unibo.it):
o Click on “PASSAGGIO DI CORSO” (i.e., degree-programme change) and enter the
required data;
o Pay for the degree-programme change fee (if you enrol after being admitted in the
first intake, the amount will be notified after the decision of the competent bodies)
Your career in the new study degree programme will be active only after your degree-programme
board formally declares the recognition of your previous studies and the prosecution of the
studies in the degree programme.
You can take learning activities in the degree programme of origin until you submit your degree-
programme change application online.
C.1. REALLOCATED candidates in the second or extraordinary intake currently enrolled in other
degree programmes at the University of Bologna (Change of degree programme)
If you are currently enrolled in another degree programme at the University of Bologna and you
participated in the third intake and you have been admitted to the programme following the
reallocation procedures, within the mandatory deadlines indicated at point 6 or 9 of the General
Calendar you shall:
• access Studenti Online (www.studenti.unibo.it), using your SPID or CIE or by entering your
UniBo username (nome.cognome@studio.unibo.it) and password;
• Pay the first instalment or the entire annual amount of the tuition fees of the degree
programme of origin and be up to date with the tuition fees payments of the previous
academic years;
• Submit the degree-programme change application form filling in the data required by the
procedure;

-- 18 of 20 --

- 19 -
• Pay for the degree-programme change fee.
Your career in the new study degree programme will be active only after your degree-programme
board formally declares the recognition of your previous studies and the prosecution of the
studies in the degree programme.
You can take learning activities in the degree programme of origin until you submit your degree
programme change application online.
Attention: In case of career abbreviation, course transfer, or admission to years beyond the first,
you will be officially moved, depending on the program you are admitted to, to the Business and
Economics program (code 8965) or the Management and Economics program (code 5892), where
the second and third years will be active for the academic year 2025/2026.
8. FINAL REMARKS AND CONTACTS
Any notice concerning this call will be published on Studenti Online (www.studenti.unibo.it).
The information on the processing of personal data is available at the following webpage
www.unibo.it/PrivacyBandiCds.
The Italian language version of the document takes priority with regard to the exact interpretation
of the rules contained within, also in the case of potential disputes.
This call for applications, issued by executive order with the protocol number and repertory shown
in the header of the first page, is subject to the rules laid down in the Decree no. 1154/2021 of the
Ministry for University and Research, and its subsequent amendments and integrations, on the
accreditation of Degree Programmes.
Appeals against this measure may be filed with the competent Regional Administrative Court
within 60 days of publication of the call for applications.
The responsible for the administrative procedure is dott.ssa Silvia Spada, in charge of the
Economics, Management and Statistics Student office.
OFFICE CLOSURE
The extraordinary closure of the offices are published on www.unibo.it.
CONTACTS
For administrative information (for ex.: deadlines, clearing procedure, how to enrol, etc):
Economics, Management and Statistics student office (for the CLABE
programme)
e-mail: segecosta@unibo.it
Forlì campus Student office (for the CLAME programme)
e-mail: segforli@unibo.it
If you wish to get in contact with the student offices, please see:
https://www.unibo.it/en/teaching/enrolment-transfer-and-final-
examination/student-administration-offices

-- 19 of 20 --

- 20 -
CLABE degree programme tutor
e-mail: didatticasociale.tutorclabe@unibo.it
CLAME degree programme tutor
e-mail didatticaforli.em.tutorclame@unibo.it
CLABE Programme coordinator (Angela Adamo)
e-mail: didatticasociale.clabe@unibo.it
CLAME Programme coordinator (Mara Donati)
e-mail didatticaforli.em.info@unibo.it
Information for international students or students with a qualification obtained abroad (for ex.
To verify if a qualification is eligible for the admission, pre-enrolment, VISA and residence permit,
international students grants…)
International desk (Bologna)
mail internationaldesk@unibo.it
To get in contact with the international desk, please see
https://www.unibo.it/en/international/contacts-for-international-
students
Information about enrolment for international students or students with a qualification
obtained abroad:
International student office Bologna
e-mail: segstudintbo@unibo.it
Forlì campus Student office (for the CLAME programme)
e-mail: segforli@unibo.it
If you wish to get in contact with the student offices, please see:
https://www.unibo.it/en/teaching/enrolment-transfer-and-final-
examination/student-administration-offices
Information about fees and grants
ABIS – Settore Diritto allo Studio – Ufficio contribuzioni studentesche
mail abis.contribuzionistudentesche@unibo.it
Information for technical problems (for ex. Username, data input, applications not properly
working….)
Help desk di Studenti Online
Telephone n. +39 051 2080301
e- mail help.studentionline@unibo.it

-- 20 of 20 --

